Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman.
That's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number four 46. In
this episode, Scott talks with
Damien Edwards about selecting the
ultimate developer laptop. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes,
and I'm talking with my
good friend and favorite Australian
Damien Edwards, our user I'm
very well. How are you?
I'm pretty good. I just
came back from a business
trip and I took my
surface pro three. It was
my only machine. I used
it for presentations for visual
studio for basically everything it's,
it's turning out to be
pretty decent and surprisingly good
PC for a, for a
developer. I'm really happy to
hear that because you and
I have been on the
fence on what our next
laptop was going to be
for a while. Now, I
think we've been talking about
this for probably ever since
we got the  and
then the new chips came
out shortly after that. We've
been talking about, you know,
what's the next laptop we're
going to get so that
we would spend our own
money on, because of course
we get hardware from Microsoft
as part of our jobs,
but I wasn't particularly happy
after a couple of months
with the X one, despite
it being a great machine,
it was like, wow, you
know, the screen, isn't that
great. And yeah, I can
get better CPU use now.
And I could do with
a little bit more of
this and that. And so
we've been looking at different
laptops for a while and
you and I have both
pulled the trigger on the
surface pro three, and I
have to say I've really
enjoyed mine so far as
well. I haven't done a
business trip with it yet
though. Well, let's, let's, let's
parse a little bit there
for people who aren't necessarily
up to our lives. When
we say X one, we're
talking about the Lenovo carbon
X one touch. Yes. There's
two versions where we call
V one and V two,
that you can tell them
apart because the carbon, next
one that is V2 has
no physical function keys. It
just has a capacitive kind
of touch looking thing at
the top there. Yeah. And
the, what happened between the
, which was the original
X one, which is a
fantastic machine. It just happened
to have only a 600
by 900 screen, which is
just too low Rez. I
really wanted a attend NDP.
They upped that to like
a super retina, 25, 60
by something ridiculous screen. Yeah.
Which was great. But then
they messed with the keyboard,
moved the caps lock around,
changed everything and generally freak
people out. I think they
destroyed the touch bed too.
For me. I actually, I
had the original X one
touch. I had the touch
pad set up because their
drivers are, you know, they're
pretty good. They're pretty detailed.
You can enable a lot
of crazy advanced things, but
I just turned pretty much
everything off and tried to
set it up to be
as close to a Mac
pro touch pad as I
possibly could, which I think
a lot of people will
recognize is without much argument
that come to the best
touchpad you can get. Right.
I think that is absolute.
I mean, if in case
you didn't know, the Mac
touch pad has just been
tuned to like a fine,
it's just, it is the
touch pad. It is all
of the touch pads pale
in comparison. Kind of amazing
that it just seems to,
I mean, I haven't used
one extensively. I've a couple
of people here have Macs
and occasionally I have to
do something on land machine
and it just seems to
naturally work. Whereas the ones
on windows always seem to
be a bit of a
struggle, but on the X
one, I was able to
turn off a whole bunch
of stuff and sort of
get it set up so
that it worked pretty much
like a Mac one, but
on the new X one,
I found that there's just
too much travel in the
touch pad. And when I
click into travel vertical travel,
it feels hollow. Not, it
doesn't feel substantial, like it's,
it doesn't resist enough. And
then when it does sort
of get beyond that threshold,
it goes too far and
it may sound really trivial,
but you know, you deal
with these inputs every day.
And if I'm going to
spend, you know, up to
$2,000 of my own money,
I wanted something that was
perfect. And you and I
have talked about this a
lot. Like what is the
perfect developer where could have
half developer, half, you know,
what we do for Microsoft?
What does that perfect device
for us? Oh, and as
an aside, just do I
get this out? If you
are a PC person and
you love the Mac touch
pad, the logic tech touchpad
T six 50 is about
as close as you can
get to having a portable
wireless version of a Mac
touch pad for a PC.
It is fantastic. And I
have one on my desk
right now. Cool. Yeah. So
the ultimate developer laptop slash
PC, it seems so simple
to me. It would have
the fastest processor. It would
have 16 gigs of Ram
and it would have a
fast SSD And it would
weigh two pounds. And last
four days, Exactly the battery
life is, is for me,
that was the big thing.
Like I was going to
go to Haswell and everyone
was promising 10 hour battery
life. The thing that I
think I made the mistake
with is I believe the
hype about battery life. When
they say, when they say
10 hours of battery life,
they mean one of two
things watching a video on
dim on the dumbest brightness
of the screen and the
video, it happens to be
some specially formatted MPEG for
that MP4 that uses the
GPU to do all of
its work. So don't touch
your laptop and watch a
10 hour movie. And the
battery will last 10 hours,
right. Or type in a
text editor while running nothing
else at the dentist, you
know, breakfast. And that's not
what anyone does. No, absolutely
not. And certainly with the
X one, I was finding
that, you know, sitting on
the couch at the end
of the day, watching TV,
while you know, doing a
bit of work, it was
either a bit of coding
and, or some email. And
obviously some browsing, it felt
like I wasn't even getting
a solid two and a
half hours out of it.
Like it was, it was
running down to the point
of course, windows doesn't even
let you get down to
zero. It starts yelling at
you as soon as you
get to 10% left and
at 7%, like it really
starts yelling at you and
basically shuts itself off. Whereas
the surface pro three, which
I've had for a few
weeks now, I stayed home
one day. Cause I wasn't
feeling a hundred percent and
I sort of wobbly, this
is the perfect opportunity. Let
me sit in my den
at home and not plug
in the surface and just
run it from a hundred
percent, doing a normal sort
of email, a little bit
of browsing, a little bit
of coding day. And I
got a solid five and
a half hours before windows
started yelling at me. And
what was interesting is that
I was noting at every
hour, how much percent I
had left, right? So I'd
go down the bottom right
hand corner, I'd hover over
the battery icon. And I
would look at what percentage
had left. And it was
incredibly linear as in it
was dropping a consistent, it
was like 18% per hour
on the hour, every single
time. So I think if
windows would let me run
to zero, which I'm sure
you can configure it to
do that, I think I
would have got, you know,
exactly six hours out of
the surface pro three and
we have the  by
the way. So people know
what was your brightness? So
that though I have my
brightness at the one lower
one level below the level
before the power settings tell
you that your screen is
too bright for battery. Okay.
So when you, as you
hover over the power icon
down there in the tray,
by the clock, if you
get too high, it says
your brightness might affect battery
life. One notch below One
notch below that. So like
what windows is telling me
is the optimum and mix
between brightness and battery life.
Okay. That makes sense. Yeah.
So I was pretty happy
five and a half hours
on, on this type of
hardware, this form factor. And
you know, we should talk
a little bit more about
surface spray three because people
have probably seen or read
about it and seen videos,
but until you actually have
one a news one every
day, I think it's hard
to appreciate just what they
managed to do in this
device. Well, I went to
this, this conference was a
designer conference and interestingly, I
saw two kinds of machines
at this conference. I saw
MacBook airs. I saw virtually
no MacBook pros. Everyone had
an, either an air or
a surface, mostly surface twos,
surface pro twos. I saw
a lot of those and
the people who had them
were game developers. They had
the, they ran unity on
them and they ran. They
wanted to be able to
run, ran, ran Maya and
different three D modeling things.
So it seems like while
web developers favor max, I
saw a lot of these
surface pros with a pen
and people doing design work
for game. I see. So
they liked the form factor
because of the pen really.
I mean as game designers.
Okay. And of course, if
you look at the, the
penny arcade fellow, the cartoonist
stuff, he's always talking about
the pen. So I think
there's a class of art
artists that a laptop with
a pen that isn't really
a tablet is really what
you want to get. Now,
I like the size of
the air. It is, it
is within a few grams
of the size of the
surface, but I'm realizing for
what I do. And traveling,
being able to remove the
keyboard is way more useful
than I thought it would
be. I will call you
out a little bit. The
MacBook air is not within
a few grams of the
surface pro three. No, not
by a long shot. What
are the sizes? So the
surface pro three without the
keyboard is about 1.7 pounds.
Okay. And the Mac book
air is about three pounds.
It was kind of the
originally ultra book. Yes. We
demonstrated this when we did
the launch of the surface
pro three were by putting
both of them on a
scale. And you know, it
was contrived as people may
think that is the surface.
Pro three is a lot
lighter. Now, when you add
the keyboard, it does tip
it up to just over
two pounds. The keyboard is
quite substantial because you know,
there's a lot of stuff
going on inside a proper
typing keyboard. And it has
one of those new precision
track pads as well. Well,
according to this site, looking
at a site, now it
says surface pro with type
covers 2.4 pounds Mac book,
air 2.96. So it looks
like a little more than
a half a pound, Half
a pound. Yeah. So I'm,
I agree with you. I
certainly finding that removing the
keyboard when I'm sort of
sitting back and going into
just sort of lounge mode
or here's a great anecdote
this weekend, I had to
clean my coffee machine. The
little light came on, and
of course I can never
remember what the process is,
is a complicated sequence of
things you have to go
through to do it. So
I usually grab a tablet
or a laptop and I
look it up on the
website, open the PDF. And
then I sit there for
half an hour and clean
the machine. But with the
surface pro three, I just
whip the keyboard off, bring
up I E in the
immersive Metro non Metro mode.
And I open the PDF
and I sit there with
the surface in one hand,
cause it's pretty comfortable to
do that in portrait and,
you know, using the confirmation
and the other to do
the cleaning. And it just
works. Like I'm finding it
around the house as a
tablet. I much prefer it
because you know, the screen
is much bigger, like an
extra two inches on the
diagonal for the screen results
in a much more readable
sort of tablet. In my
mind, it feels like a
magazine. Would you use your
iPad for? So I only
have an original iPad. I
never upgraded. And I found
this weighs about the same
as the original iPad, but
I get a screen that's
like I said, quite a
lot larger with obviously a
much better quality, you know,
higher pixels per inch and
whatnot. And it's a lot
faster. I mean, this is
an  ultra book, you
know, a genuine ISO and
ultra book. This thing is
as fast as my X
one carbon, it's actually faster.
And it's actually as fast
for doing visual studio compilation
as my desktop, I use
here at work. That might
be a good segue to
start talking about the differences
and what it means in
a developer to be a
developer and using one of
these devices. Yeah. Yeah. Now,
one thing I do want
to address though, that is
just it's we can't really
get past it. We, we
are two random dudes on
the, you know, talking on
Skype here right now, who
happened to work for Microsoft.
So someone who's made it
this far, you know, there's
11, 12 minutes into the
podcast are going to be
like, okay, I guess this
is the episode of Hansel
minutes where the two Microsoft
people try to sell me
the surface pro to be
clear. We do work for
Microsoft to also be clear.
We bought the surface pros
with our own money. We
did not receive any discounts.
I bought mine@microsoftstore.com. We get
laptops for work. We're allowed
one new laptop every three
years. And I have had
two laptops at Microsoft. I
had  ThinkPad and I
have a, an X one
carbon, but both you and
I bought our surface pros
after probably what months of
deliberation and discussion. Yeah, well,
we were very, I was
looking very closely at the
Asus Zen book, a UX,
I think it's the 31,
the eight of book prime.
Right. And I was looking
at the, the, the Samsung,
yes, The series nine plus
whatever it's called. And those
were both, you know, they're
very good laptops. And indeed
the ultra, the USCIS has
a very fast ultra book
processor in it. In fact,
it's the, the fastest rated.
It was the Intel four,
five, five ATU, which is
a core a seven, but
it has 28 Watts TDP.
It's rated at a thermal
dispersion rating. Like how much
heat it has to dissipate
when it's running at 28
Watts. Now that's versus the
CPU as you find in
the surface pro and the
Samsung and even the X
one at 15 Watts. So
you're talking about a lot
more heat because it's using
a lot more energy and,
you know, but getting you
more power as a result,
but it turned out the
Seuss didn't have a TPM,
which is the trusted platform
module chip, right. And for
us, you know, connecting to
VPN all the time and
wanting to use BitLocker a
TPM is I certainly would
always choose a machine with
a TPM. Every one, without
it, if I'm doing any
type of work, If you're
a VP entering into work
and your work has any
kind of sophisticated VPN, or
you use a smart card
or a smart card reader,
I wanted to be able
to, you want it to
be able to VPN in
with a smart card where
the smart card is virtual.
Yes, exactly. So it's inside
the TPM effectively, rather than
me having to plug it
in every time, which means
I can't get in the
building. Cause I invariably leave
it plugged into the reader
and then I go outside
and come back in and
can't get in again. So
I really enjoyed that. The,
the, the point there is
that while we do work
for Microsoft, we bought these
ourselves, make your own decisions.
You guys who are listening
to us guys and gals
know that we, we tell
it like it is, I
don't really care if you
buy a surface or not.
If you don't, that's just
more surfaces for me. So,
Oh, and actually, Hey, one
of the thing before we
get into the developer specific
performance stuff, you know, I
thought the kickstand was a
gimmick. I really did. I
have a, I have a,
a, an iPad air. And
I always used to tell
people how great the magnetic
case was. Cause you could
fold it backwards and then
it would turn into a
little triangle and that would
allow you to prop the
thing up. Having a kickstand
on a tablet is really
cool idea. I was on
an airplane for like 12
hours day before yesterday, and
not only was able to
take the, take the keyboard
off and use the tablet
and watch movies. And I
watched it for the entire
time. Cause if you just
watching movies, the battery life
is fantastic. But check this
out. There was no television,
no video screen on the
flight from Washington D C.
So I had a six
and a half hour flight
with no TV. I took
the kickstand and put it
into the pocket of the
seat, back in front of
me and hung it up
at the top at the
level at the, as the
screen usually is. And people
thought that it was integrated
into like people who would
walk by. We're like, how
come he has a TV?
That is hilarious. And it's
12 inch screen. I mean,
did you cause a ruckus
on the plane? I did
cause a ruckus people were
impressed with my video collection
because I had the little
SD card because I popped
in the 64 gig mini
SD card and bought some
movies with me. Right. So
I was living the dream
while everyone else was reading
the sky mall. And did
you have your Bluetooth headphones
as well? I did, but
I was told that they
would rather, that I use
it plugged in Really that's
interesting. Cause I have been
on a flight recently, a
couple of them and they
do make a point now
certainly in America of saying
that you're able to use
electronics from gate to gate.
And what type of electronics
as an, as an interesting
point. One of the great
things about having a convertible
is that you still can't
use a laptop from gate
to gate. For whatever reason.
I don't know what the
reason is. I think it's
because they're heavier. They don't
like them being in the
aisle. And because you generally
have to have the tray
down to use them, a
lot of people do you
still have to have the
train, try out for take
up and landing. And so
I think they say the
smaller devices are okay because
in an emergency you just
throw them on the floor
and get out. But if
you have an unwieldy laptop,
it can be, you know,
take you precious seconds to
put it away. Right. And
so one of the great
thing about the surface pro
is you can just flip
the keyboard around to the
back. When the, when they're
telling you to put your
leg, you had laptops away,
use it as a tablet.
And then, you know, when
everyone sits down, you flip
it out again and continue
on your way. That is
actually exactly what happened. The,
the flight attendant came by
and said, sir, you need
to put your laptop away.
And then I kind of
did it. I was a
little obnoxious of me, but
I just ripped the keyboard
off and stuck it in
and she goes, Oh, and
then just moved along. So
I thought that was pretty
awesome. So I was able
to watch movies, basically wheels
up to wheels down That's
yeah. That I actually really
enjoyed that feature of it
and have had to watch
other people put their laptops
away while I smugly continue
to use my surface, which
is kind of nice. So
performance wise, I went and
bought the, the surface dock.
Cause I wanted to really
give it a go as,
as a desktop replacement. How
are you finding the I
seven processor and the speed
in this thing generally? So
Yeah, I, one of these
guys who likes to have
a desktop when I'm at
my desk. So, you know,
I think a few people
have seen the photo of
my set up here at
work where I have four
monitors. I have three 24
inch widescreen monitors. I'm sort
of at eye level. And
then underneath the center monitor,
I have a 27 inch
touch monitor sort of resting
on the desk, but tilt
it up. Cause it has
one of those stands where
you can tilt it up,
cause it's touch. And then
my keyboard in front of
it. So I have this
sort of, you know, enterprise
looking command center, which I
really like having, when I'm
standing at my desk and
at home, I have a
desktop as well. So I
do not use the surface
as like my one machine
to rule them all. But
that said, I do do
a fair bit of coding
on it. And obviously I'm,
I'm doing this call right
now on it. When we
do the Espino community standups,
which we've just started, which
is a Google hangout. I
run that completely from my
surface, including with, you know,
external high resolution cameras and
you know, all that type
of stuff to get that
looking good. And it handles
it, you know, with a
plum, this is a genuine
core. I seven it's the
46 50 you. Now that
chip was released about a
year ago. Now it's actually
an old chip, but it
is the most expensive and
most high-performing version of the
ultra book chips that
are at 15 Watts TDP.
And it gives you the
Intel HD 5,000 graphics. So
more of the CPU die
is kind of allocated to
the graphics side in terms
of how much power they'll
put through it. But it
runs at a base clock
speed of 1.7 gigahertz, but
overclocks to 3.3 gigahertz when
you're doing single core type
of stuff. So to give
you a comparison, I have
on my desktop here, it's
a core I seven Sandy
bridge. So that's the third
generation or second generation I
think of the  desktops
and it's the  26
50 or something like that.
So it's a pretty good
chip. You know, it's
a genuine quad core with
hyper-threading. And if I download
a register windows source code
from GitHub and I do
a command line compile of
that solution from cold, my
desktop and my surface pro
three complete in the same
amount of time. So does
that mean that the build
system is not effectively using
all those processors? So it's
basically it's as multi-threaded as
it can be and the
additional course don't matter. That's
true. So if I then
turn on, multi-core build on
both the desktop does pull
ahead by about three seconds,
cause it has double the
number of actual cause. So
it goes to about a,
a 13 second build while
the tablet stays at 15
to 16 seconds. But my,
the surface pro three, sorry,
my Lenovo X one carbon
touch I have the first
that could do at best
about a 22nd build. So
my surface pro three is
at least 25% faster when
doing sort of raw compilation
of a fairly complicated C
plus plus project. Then my
Lenovo X one carbon touch.
So you keep saying TDP
is thermal design point or
certain thermal design power. That
is the maximum amount of
heat that a CPU can
produce. Yeah, it's basically the
max, it's a writing for
the entire system that says,
this is how much hate
you have to dissipate from
this unit, from the CPU
and graphics card. In this
case, in order for this
to operate at normal sort
of ratings. After this rate,
we're going to thermally throttle
the CPU so that it
doesn't get so hot because
I think a lot of
people don't really realize just
how hot a laptop CPU
gets under normal use sort
of a, an ultra book
will easily get to
80 degrees centigrade very quickly.
When you start doing CPU
intensive tasks. When I say
quickly, I mean within a
couple of seconds, it'll get
up to 80 degrees centigrade
and sort of sit there.
If you're pegging it at
a hundred percent CPU, once
you're getting above 90 degrees
centigrade, that's when you start
to get into fem shut
down territory or thermal throttling,
I should say where the
firmware on the CPU will
start saying, Hey, it's getting
a bit hot. I need
to run slower. So there's
less electrons going through me
and thus creating heat. Now
the X one I found
would get very hot when
I use it on my
lap. It has a carbon
fiber chassis, but the vent
is located in one very
specific location on the left
hand side. And if I'm
sitting on my couch and
shorts using the X one,
I would, it would be
uncomfortable. Okay, I'd have to
move it around because it
would get quite hot and
the fan would get quite
loud. And the surface pro
three being a, an
in a much more family
constrained chassis. Cause it is
so ridiculously thin does have
a similar result if I
push it hardly as hard,
but because all the graphic,
all the chips are up
in the screen. I don't
feel it on my lap.
Right, right. Because it's, it's,
it's the opposite of a
laptop in the sense of
you show those jokes early
on about the surface where
you take the heavy part
and you make that the
vertical part of the laptop.
Well, yeah, I think that
I was a little disappointed,
I must say in the
first few weeks of having
a surface, because I somehow
imagined that it would be
cool, like an iPad, but
as fast as a desktop.
And I spent some time
kind of basically being upset
about that and then, and
then realized kind of, I'm
not trying to be an
apologist, but I am trying
to be a realist that
the laws of physics are
the laws of physics. You
know what I mean? Is
there any so much hate
you can discipline? I have
an  seven desktop with
a two 56 gig SSD
and eight gigs plus of
Ram. And now I have
the same thing. That's effectively
the size of my original
iPad or a MacBook air.
And it'll run, you know,
two 24 inch monitors plus
or two thirties even. And
it got a little hot
and I was like, man,
this sucks. I mean, I'm
on, I mean, you know,
I'm being honest. I was
pretty upset about it. And
then, and then I think
it was you actually, that
was just like, Hey, you
know, physics or physics, if
the CPU is under 50%,
it's basically silent. But when
I, what I was doing
was I was, you know,
watching Netflix, downloading email, doing
builds, and then running handbrake
all at the same time
and pissed off about it.
Yeah. And break differently. We'll
we'll peg your CPU and
keep you going. But all
that said, I will say
that as I just mentioned,
this CPU we have in
here is a year old.
It came out in quarter
three, 2013, and Intel has
just announced the public availability
of the brand new core
M processes, which is the
next generation. This is the
Broadwell chips. Currently. Most people
will. If they've bought a
laptop in the last year
will have Haswell, which is
what the surface pro three
is. And they are focused
predominantly on reducing the amount
of heat that is needed
to be dispersed and improving
battery life as a result.
And to give an example,
the first round of CPS,
they released replaced the Y
series of laptop CPS. Now
you and I have the
U series, which is that
they are the ultra book
series, the Y series or
a special, low voltage version
of those. But previously they
were rated at about 12
TDP. And again, the user
rate at a 15, the
new Y series equivalents are
rated at four and a
half Watts of TDP. Now
that is an amazing improvement.
And what that means is
we can now have convertibles
that are somewhat like the
surface pro without a fan.
You can actually create an
x86 machine that isn't an
atom. It is a call
based machine that gets, you
know, similar type of performance,
but without a fan, What
does that mean? That I
regret the purchase of my
surface pro thinking that a
month later, something better will
come up. Sorry. Maybe not.
I mean, that's all personal.
I mean, I can tell
you right off the bat,
when we inevitably do a
refresh of the surface pro
three, with the Broadwell chips,
I will buy one. I
will buy the  equivalent
and I will either sell
this one or I'll hand
it down within the family,
because the improvements they're talking
about from this new range
of chips where, you know,
it's where 22 nanometers with
the current generation, the new
generation goes down to 14
nanometers, which again, just relates
to less battery use. They're
saying 20% improvement in battery
life. And obviously a lot
less heat. I will, I'm
all up in that. Like
I want the same chassis
with even less heat and
even more battery life and
still an increase in performance.
They're talking about the specifically
the graphics portion of the
new chips being at least
50% faster than what we
have here. So I'm all
up for that. Hmm. Do
you, so you still have
your desktop. You're not going
to accept this as your
kind of primary top and
savior. Yeah. At work. I
still have my desktop at
home. I just realized I
was cleaning out some filing
over the weekend. My home
desktop is five years old.
I built it five years
ago and it's a core
I seven, nine 20, which
was the original seven. And
so I'm debating right now
whether I sink five, $600
on the internals of that
to upgrade it to one
of the new devil's Canyon
CPS, which were just released
for desktop, which would require
a new motherboard and a
new video card and a
new CPU, or whether I
just, you know what, let
me just turn off the
desktop. And maybe I should
just sync $200 on one
of the surface pro three
docs and see if that
is a better setup for
me at home. I, I'm
not really sure. You know,
I have the same ultimate
developer PC that I built.
I have to check online.
I think it would be
about almost five years ago.
The one that Jeff Atwood
helped me with and it's
fine. Like this is the
thing about processor power and
why gigahertz just matters less.
I think that when I
built this machine, it was
about the last time that
I thought about gigahertz. Cause
that was, I spent 15,
20 years always thinking about
that. It's a core, I
seven it's an, it's an
extreme edition. So it's the
extra nine 80 runs at
3.33. I overclocked it just
a smidge. So it's a
12 processor machine. They call
it a hexachord. It has
12 gigs of Ram. And
it's fine, like really? But
it was fine five years
ago. It's fine. Now the
two upgrades that I made
to this machine were an
SSD. If you're listening, you
have to get an SSD.
It is just folly to
not have one. Okay. Amazon
good. A new egg. You
can get a two 56
gig name brand like a
Samsung, which is still considered
one of the best ones
for under $200 now. Yep.
So there, there is no
excuse if you, if you
use a computer for a
living, please buy yourself an
SSD, if your company won't.
Yeah. And then I found
a Bitcoin miner online who
was getting rid of Nvidia
cards and I bought an
Nvidia seven 50 I for
a hundred bucks, which gave
me a significant, significant 3d
upgrade. And I was suddenly
on now I can play
10 80 P games like
tomb Raider at 60 frames
a second. And the only
thing, like the only thing
that keeps me up from
up at night is just
one day the SSD will
die. That's basically like I'm
four years into an SSD
and one day I'm going
to turn this thing on
and it's just not going
to turn out. Yeah. And
that will be stressful, but
everything's backed up. Yeah. But
you know, basically the only
thing that I worry about
is hard drive failure. Yeah.
So the one thing that's
that, that is eating at
me a bit with my
desktop at home now is
just how much power it
uses. And I, and you're
concerned about it from a
double. It it's it. Yeah.
It's on most of the
time, it's probably one of
the major power draws because
that, that I seven was
rated at 140 Watts of
TDP. Like it puts out
a lot of heat and
it consumes a lot of
power. So it's, you know,
my, my office is a
little noisy just because of
that one tower. It has
a very large cooler on
it. Whereas if I, if
I dropped one of the
new devil Kenyans in, I
can get, you know, a
lot more processing power, but
they're rated at 88 Watts,
but then they run it
four gigahertz. I mean, that's
an incredibly fast CPU. It's
the fastest non lexical CPU
you can buy. And yet
it uses substantially less power
and puts out a lot
less heat than my current
setup. And I could even
get rid of the video
card because it has integrated
graphics and I don't play
PC games on my desktop
at home. So I could
really reduce the amount of
noise and Hayden power. That's
my office consumes at home
while still having it turned
on all the time. So
yeah, I dunno a bit
tone at the moment about
what to do with my
desktop. Okay. So let's, let's
in our, in our closing
here, as we've been rambling
for a while, let's get
down to brass tacks. Can
someone take their existing machine,
whatever their machine is and
replace it. If they're a
full time professional developer with
a surface pro three or
a similarly SPECT machine. So
One thing that will stop
you, it's a yes and
no. If you ordinarily use
virtual machines as part of
your setup, then I would
probably say no, because eight
gig of Ram is not
enough to run a host
and a VM. It just
is not enough with any
amount of performance with any
amount of performance. I couldn't
do it on my carbon
touch and I can't do
it on my surface pro
if you don't use VMs.
And I don't, I don't
have any need to use
VMs whatsoever. It is more
than enough. Okay. So I
have a buddy of mine
who bought a surface pro
three, and I warned him
about that. And he has
been running VMs. He says
with some success, what he
does is he runs a
them off of a separate
hard drive. So he gets
a little more performance cause
you've got a USB three
there. So he's got a
USB three portable hard drive,
72 RPM. He runs the
VM off of that. It,
he says that he makes
the beam a little smaller
than you'd think because these
are kind of single tasked
VMs. I see the idea
being that some people say,
well, I have a four
gig machine. I need a
four gig VM. Really what
you need is a gig
and a half to run
the one app or the,
you know, the one, if
you're doing windows, I'm just
doing website development. You just
need the IIS. So you
keep it a little smaller.
But the real kicker, what
I thought you were going
to say was that connected,
standby, that special I'm asleep,
but not quite asleep. I
can still get email power
mode is disabled when you
turn hyper V on. And
everyone knows that everyone gets
all torn up about that.
But remember that's a server
side feature that was ported
to the client. So it
makes sense that the most
advanced client side feature that
windows has is not supported
by the most advanced service
side features. So, And let's
remember that this is the
first core product available in
the market that supports connected
standby. So what are you
losing? I mean, my, my
carbon touched it and support
connected standby. Right? Right. So
connect to standby, of course,
as a way to snooze
and then also wake up,
do something real quick and
then fall back asleep. It's
a, it also lets you
be on standby for a
very, very long period of
time. What people are doing
is just making a batch
file that calls BCD edit
or, and, and basically turning
hyper V on and off,
you can also make a
boot menu if you want
to, to do the same
thing. So there's ways around
it. But I agree with
you, if you live and
breathe VMs, then the service
pro three is definitely not
for you. Yeah. And I
certainly harp it in the
future. The CPS do support
16 gigabyte, but there was
no manufacturer building a laptop
with an Ultrabook CPU that
takes 16 gigabyte that I'm
aware of. I would hope
that someone allows that at
some point in the future.
And this is where I
think you and I totally
agreed. What is the ultimate
developer laptop look like? Yeah.
I say that for me,
it's a surface pro three.
It's what I have right
here. I could change anything.
It would be to put
16 gigabytes in it and
to have the next generation
of CPU so that it
puts out just a little
bit less heat and I
get a solid seven hours
of battery life out of
it. That's the ultimate for
me. I would also say
I very much. If you're
going to use it for
your main machine, I'm thrilled
with the dock. I can
run two large monitors, one
off of the mini DV
on the back of it,
many DVI in the back
of it. And one off
the side. So basically you
can two monitors. You can
chain using a display link
chaining. You get like fricking
six different USB on the
dock, on the dock. It's
a ridiculous amount of USB,
much more than most docs.
It's really quite elegant. If
my desktop died tomorrow, while
I would mourn it, I
would probably not rush out
and replace it because I
would probably just switch everything
to use the surface. So
I'm pretty happy with that.
If you have an SSD
and you've got eight gigs
or maybe 12, I think
you could succeed, but I'm
pretty happy with it and
I'm going to keep, keep
using it. Cool. Thanks for
chatting with me, buddy. No,
not at all. This has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week. .